# Udacity Data Engineer Nanodegree Project: Data Lake with Aparche Spark

## Introduction

A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

They'd like a data engineer to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis, and bring you on the project. Your role is to create a database schema and ETL pipeline for this analysis. You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

## Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song.

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

Files are available in Amazon s3 bucket at s3://udacity-dend/log_data and s3://udacity-dend/song_data containing log data and songs data respectively.

## Database Schema Design

### Fact Table

songplays: songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

### Dimension Tables

users: user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level 
songs: song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration 
artists: artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude 
time: start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

### Files

#### etl.py

This script retrieves song and log data in the s3 bucket, converts the data into fact and dimensional tables and then loads the table data back into s3 as parquet files.

#### dl.cfg

Contains users AWS keys.